---
title: "Magic 8 Ball Function"
publishDate: 2018-01-01
date: 2018-01-01
authors: ["nikagarwal"]
draft: FALSE
output:
  html_document:
    keep_md: yes
---

In my PREDICT 454 class, one of the R challenges that our professor wanted us to undertake involved creating a simple function that 'acted' like the venerable [Magic 8 Ball](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_8-Ball). So let's get to it!

## Prerequisite

1. The function must output one of the following texts:

* 'I don't see that happening.'
* 'You must be dreaming.'
* 'Chances are good.'
* 'If you work hard and stay focused, then this might happen.'
* 'When the sun shines, it shines on your face.'
* 'Definitely going to happen!'
* 'Take some time to think about it.'
* 'This is not a good idea!'
* 'This is a great idea!'
* 'Cannot be determined at this time. Try Again!'

2. Add an optional feature in which the user can include the seed number

3. The function should be called **magic.8ball()** and if a seed is to be used, then the function could called as **magic.8ball(123)**

## Solution

### Function Definition


```r
magic.8ball <- function(x.seed) {
  # define messages
  msg1 <- "I don't see that happening."
  msg2 <- 'You must be dreaming.'
  msg3 <- 'Chances are good.'
  msg4 <- 'If you work hard and stay focused, then this might happen.'
  msg5 <- 'When the sun shines, it shines on your face.'
  msg6 <- 'Definitely going to happen!'
  msg7 <- 'Take some time to think about it.'
  msg8 <- 'This is not a good idea!'
  msg9 <- 'This is a great idea!'
  msg10 <- 'Cannot be determined at this time.  Try Again!'
  msg_list <- list(msg1, msg2, msg3, msg4, msg5, msg6, msg7, msg8, msg9, msg10)

  if(missing(x.seed)) {
    x <- sample(1:10,1)
  } else {
    set.seed(x.seed)
    x <- sample(1:10,1)
  }
  return(print(msg_list[x]))
}
```

### Function Results

#### Function with random seed


```r
magic.8ball()
```

```
## [[1]]
## [1] "Definitely going to happen!"
```

#### Function with user-defined seed


```r
magic.8ball(123)
```

```
## [[1]]
## [1] "Chances are good."
```


### Function Explanation

For the most part, this function is quite simple. Although there are numerous ways to derive this solution, I felt it was easier to define each message into a variable and then store all of the variables in a list. Then, the function would simply sample an integer between 1 and 10 (since there are 10 messages) and recall the corresponding list member for display to the end user.

The slight twist in this example was the user-defined seed. In order ot do this correctly, I employed the command ```missing``` to check and see if the user had originally entered a value in the function call. If none is there, then the function uses a random seed and if the user did enter some number, then it sets the seed accordingly.

Hope all that makes sense. Let me know if you have any questions!
